Introduction to Path Integral Project
*************************************


What is Path Integral Project?
==============================

I promise, this might be the most comprehensible introduction of
Quantum Field Theory existed, ever. Indeed, the Quantum Field Theory
can be one of the most powerful but complicated advanced physical
theory ever existed. And, I was one of the many victims of this
complication.

However, we want to put this situation to an end. Instead of directly
throwing piles of academic illustration, we hope to clarify all the
logic during the construction of Quantum Field Theory. Moreover, it is
also expected that a mathematically acceptable Quantum Field Theory to
be established if possible.

Accordingly, the Path Integral Project emerges. This project will do a
profound investigation towards the construction of a mathematically
rigorous Quantum Field Theory, and to see if any amendments during
this process will provide hint towards a valid quantised gravitational
theory.

Excited? Then just follow my pace to the next section. Welcome to the
world of quantum field theory.


A Brief History
===============

Unlike other Quantum Field Theory textbook, our introduction to the
history will not be so long. In this section, we only plan to
introduce the part that has direct connection to the motivation of
Quantum Field Theory.

!! The following context will call Geometric Unit System and Einstein
Summation Convention. Review the link if you have never heard of them
— they are important!

Assuming that you already have the knowledge of Quantum Mechanics. At
least you are able to recognise the most famous equation shown below

   \mathrm{i}\frac{\partial}{\partial t}\psi =
   -\frac{1}{2m}\nabla^2\psi + V\psi

It is called a wave equation. Why? If you take

   \psi = A\exp\{-\mathrm{i}\omega t + \mathrm{i}k\cdot x\}

into the equation, you will find that it is a solution of the
Schrödinger equation as long as the following holds

   \omega = \frac{k^2}{m} + V \label{difrel}

Recall that we have the following relationship in Quantum Mechanics

   \omega = E,\ \ \ \ \  k^i = p^i

where  is the energy and  is the momentum with . Now, we immediately
find that the previous equation becomes

   E = \frac{p^2}{m} + V

which is nothing but the energy-momentum relationship in Newtonian
classical mechanics.

! Now we release symbol . This indicates that  in the following
context will have a different meaning.

So now we are going to think: what if we want it to be relativistic?
Assuming that you already have the knowledge of Relativity. In Special
Theory of Relativity, the energy-momentum relationship becomes

   E^2 = p^2 + m^2

To achieve this result, simply reverse the previous steps. The above
relationship should require

   \omega^2 = k^2 + m^2

And this requires

   (\partial_\mu\partial^\mu - m^2)\varphi = 0

where the signature of metric here is . This is the famous “Klein-
Gordon equation” — the relativistic version of Schrödinger equation.
The quotes here indicates that it still has some subtle difference
with the *real* Klein-Gordon equation, as we are going to see next.

It seems that it is so easy to combine Quantum Mechanics and Special
Theory of Relativity. Nonetheless, things are not so trivial. The
Newtonian energy-momentum relation can guarantee that the energy of a
free () particle is always positive. However, the relativistic version
can not. The relativistic energy-momentum relation reveals that

   E = \pm\sqrt{p^2+m^2}

where we discover that there are both positive and negative solutions
are possible. This issue is not paramount in classical theory, since
the energy of a classical particle can only varies continuously, and
there is a gap of  between the lowest positive energy  (where ) and
the greatest negative value  (where ). Thus, a classical particle can
have either positive or negative energy — the only matter is to set an
initial sign.

However, recall that quantised particles can jump between discrete
energy levels. Hence, it is just a matter of probability for them to
jump from a positive energy to a negative one and … fall all the way
down to minus infinity. This then becomes a major difficulty of
“Klein-Gordon equation”.

Also, let’s investigate the continuity equation. In Quantum Mechanics,
there is

   \mathrm{i}\frac{\partial}{\partial t}\varphi &=
   -\frac{1}{2m}\nabla^2\varphi + V\varphi\\
   -\mathrm{i}\frac{\partial}{\partial t}\varphi^* &=
   -\frac{1}{2m}\nabla^2\varphi^* + V\varphi^*

The first equation is the Schrödinger equation and the second equation
is nothing other than the complex conjugate of the first one.

Now, we apply  to the first equation and  to the second one, and let
the first one subtract the second

   \varphi^*\mathrm{i}\frac{\partial}{\partial t}\varphi +
   \varphi\mathrm{i}\frac{\partial}{\partial t}\varphi^* =
   \varphi\frac{1}{2m}\nabla^2\varphi^* -
   \varphi^*\frac{1}{2m}\nabla^2\varphi

which, after a transform, becomes

   \mathrm{i}\frac{\partial}{\partial t}\varphi\varphi^* =
   \frac{1}{2m}\nabla(\varphi\nabla\varphi^* - \varphi^*\nabla\varphi)

To gain the continuity equation, the only thing to do is to identify
the probability density and probability current as

   \rho = \varphi\varphi^*,\ \ \ \ \ \vec{j} = {1\over2m\mathrm
   i}(\varphi\nabla\varphi^* - \varphi^*\nabla\varphi)

The probability density is the square of the wave function, and will
always be positive due to the property of square. Everything works
fine here.

However, if you derive the continuity equation corresponding to the
“Klein-Gordon equation”, you will find that the “probability density”
now becomes

   \rho \sim \varphi^*\frac{\partial}{\partial t}\varphi -
   \varphi\frac{\partial}{\partial t}\varphi^*

The minus sign indicates that it might be negative(!), which destroys
the probabilistic interpretation of quantum theory. This is another
major difficulty of “Klein-Gordon equation”.

To solve the difficulties, physicists decided to reinterpret symbol
here as **classical field**, instead of wave function. Then, similar
to the Quantum Mechanics, path integral is used to quantise the
classical field.

Now, if you can follow the pace, welcome to the next section.


Why Path Integral?
==================

If you have any previous touch with Quantum Field Theory, you may know
that there is a much more popular way to quantise the classical fields
— canonical quantisation. However, in this introduction, we will not
mention a word about it. If you are curious about the reason, this
section will tell you why. However, if you are just a new learner, you
can well skip this, it won’t affect.


Canonical Quantisation
----------------------

Take the scalar field for example. The canonical quantisation claims
the following “quantisation condition”

   [\varphi(\vec x, t), \pi(\vec x', t)] = \mathrm i\delta(\vec x-\vec
   x')

This is convenient since similar commutation relation has been studied
thoroughly in Quantum Mechanics. However, it is this very first
assumption that ruins the whole field theory.

To see this, let’s first review what the Quantum Mechanics claims. In
Quantum Mechanics, we have the following commutation relation

   [x_i, p_j] = \mathrm i\delta_{ij}

There is nothing wrong here if both  and  are operators, and the
product refers to operator composition. As an example, explicitly
write an representation as  will satisfy the above relation.

However, although many physicists claim that the commutation relation
of fields is nothing but a continuous version of the point particle
one, it is still mathematically impossible for such a “continuous”
commutation relation to hold.

This can be seen through the following argument: field  and  are both
scalar field; according to the definition of scalar field product and
subtraction,  and  will both be scalar field, so will their commutator
. Thus, the left hand side of the commutation relation will be a
scalar field (or more specifically, operator valued scalar field).

However, the right hand side is not a scalar field. Instead, according
to the most moderate point of view,  should be at most a generalized
function. Therefore, the two sides of the equation can never be equal.


Comments on Delta Function
--------------------------

The delta function is always a subtle object in Physics. First
invented by Dirac in early 20th century, it has showed it magic in
Quantum Mechanics for a countless of times. Hence, although the
expression of Dirac delta function had been repeatedly refused,
mathematicians were eventually forced to investigate this strange
“function” seriously.

Indeed, there has been several successful interpretation of delta
function, such as generalized function theory and Dirac delta measure
in measure theory. However, these implementation can only hold if the
delta function is inside the integral, no matter what the integral
means.

This condition can be fully comply in Quantum Mechanics, which
explains why the delta function achieves that much. However, in
canonical quantisation, the commutation relation will require delta
function to appear barely outside. A further investigation reveals
that finally it is this carelessness that finally leads to the
annoying infinities in S-matrix, and hence brings difficulties in
quantising gravity.

Finally, we want to emphasise that the success of delta function in
Quantum Mechanics does not mean that it will succeed in Quantum Field
Theory too. The fact is: it fails. Therefore, in our introduction to
Quantum Field Theory, canonical quantisation is avoided and any
further usage of delta function will be carefully treated.
