Geometric Unit System
---------------------

This is an introduction to the geometric unit used widely in the
theoretical contexts of Physics.

In Physics, there are many important constants, such as light speed in
vacuum :math:`c`, (reduced) Plank constant :math:`\hbar`, absolute
permittivity :math:`\varepsilon_0`, etc. If we include all these
constants in an equation, the expression can be cumbersome. To solve
this problem, the simplest way is to introduce the following convention

.. math:: c=1,\ \ \ \ \ \hbar=1

Therefore, all multiplication of these constants in the equation will
disappear. But wait! You may immediately notice a problem: the
dimension! Yes, it seems that the above equation violates a fundamental
requirement — balance of dimension. The left hand side is a physical
constant with dimension, but the right hand side is a pure number.

Well, this in fact does not matter so much. You can view it as a
redefinition of units. For example, to make light speed :math:`c=1`, all
we need to do is to redefine the time unit as the time within which
light travels a unit length. This is called **Geometric Unit System**.
As a result, the convention :math:`c=1` will be equivalent to
:math:`[L]=[T]`, where :math:`[L]` stands for the length dimension and
:math:`[T]` for time dimension. Similarly, it is easy to figure out that
:math:`\hbar=1` leads to :math:`[L]=[M]^{-1}`.

Hope you get the point. Now you should not feel unfamiliar with
sentences like “momentum has a dimension of :math:`[L]^{-1}`\ ”. The
theory of dimension analysis guarantees that there will not be a problem
with this convention as long as you do a correct calculation.
